The distribution of fishing intensity in the Norwegian Trench has a strong spatial variation due to geological conditions of the area. (Figure 2). Areas of higher intensity occur outside of the trench with an intensely fished area between Norway and Denmark. Areas with lower intensity occur along the slope of the trench. 

Fishing intensity is highest in offshore circalittoral sand (average intensity = 14.2 year-1) followed by offshore circalittoral mud (average intensity = 5.29 year-1) and circalittoral sand (average intensity = 4.45 year-1).  The proportion of area subject to fishing pressure differs between broad-scale habitats going from 20 to 99%. The highest proportion of area covered occurs in the three most intensely fished habitats (offshore circalittoral sand with 98% of grid cells fished, offshore circalittoral mud with 93% of grid cells fished, and circalittoral sand with 99% of grid cells fished) (Table 2). The largest portion of swept area covers the upper bathyal sediment habitat from which the largest portion of landing and value come from. However, up to 57% of the grid cells is fished and intensity is 1.75 on average.  

Total fishing intensity decreased over time in offshore circalittoral mud habitat (Figure 3). A peak of intensity in 2016 is displayed for the other habitats, although possibly coming from erroneous data. The proportion of area fished remained constant for offshore circalittoral mud, while it seems to increase over time for the other habitats. The same pattern is visible for the core fishing grounds, where the proportion of area covering 90% of the effort seems to expand over time (effort less aggregated over time). Fishing pressure is still very aggregated, both at the regional level as well as at the level of the habitat (Figure 3, right panel). The smallest proportion of habitat with 90% of effort varies between 8-40%. These grounds strongly contribute to the landings and value as it is displayed by the steep cumulative curve in Figure 4. Over 80% of the fishing effort (swept area) landings and value occur in less than 20% of the surface area of the Norwegian Trench.
