The distribution of fishing intensity in Kattegat does not have a strong spatial variation with regards to the c-squares where fishing is recorded (Figure 2). Within the latter area, peak of intensity is displayed in the northern area, but SAR between 1 and 5 y-1 are the predominant. 

The proportion of area subject to fishing pressure differs between broad-scale habitats. The dominant habitat by area is offshore circalittoral mud. This habitat is also the most intensely and extensively fished with a fishing intensity of 2.92 and 94% of the grid cells fished. The second broad-habitat type by swept area is offshore circalittoral sand with an average intensity of 0.64 and 82% grid cells fished. 

Total fishing intensity shows an overall decreasing trend over time between 2013 and 2018 (Figure 3). There is a large drop in intensity in offshore circalittoral mud between 2010 and 2016, despite the proportion of area fished and the aggregation of fishing pressure in the habitat remained constant over time. The average trawling intensity is more variable over time than the proportion of area fished (Figure 3, compare left and middle panel). This shows that changes in intensity have not affected the spatial distribution of the footprint much.

Among the four most extensive habitats, the proportion of area subject to fishing pressure is mostly constant over time, with only a visible small decrease in offshore circalittoral sand area fished. Fishing pressure is aggregated, both at the regional level as well as at the level of the habitat because of the limitation in fishable extents imposed by shallow depths (Figure 3, right panel). The smallest proportion of habitat with 90% of effort is constant over time between 10-50% across habitats. The ‘core fishing grounds’ contribute most of the landings and value (Figure 4). In Kattegat however, landing and value are more distributed across c-squares, despite being already concentrated by depth limitations. Around 50% of the landing come from 20% of the overall Kattegat subdivisions, while more than 60% value correspond to such surface area percentage (Figure 4).
