The impact of mobile bottom-contacting fishing from the PD method shows the areas of highest fishing impact along the slopes of the Norwegian trench in the Skagerrak and western Norway and in the eastern English Channel (note the 200m depth limit in this assessment) (Figure 7, left). High impact areas are also seen along the continental coast of the North Sea, in the southern North Sea and Kattegat. High impact from the L1 method covers a much larger area (Figure 7, right) that largely mimics the map of fishing intensity. 

The impact scores of the PD and L1 method are largely constant over time (Figure 8, left panel). Impact varies between habitats (Figure 8 shows the four most extensive habitat types). Of these four habitat types, impact is highest in offshore circalittoral mud and lowest in offshore circalittoral sand. Between 50-80% of each habitat type has a PD impact score <0.2, whereas only 10-40% of each habitat type has an L1 impact score <0.2. 

The different métiers were assessed for the grid cells that were fished by one MBCG métier, ignoring cells fished by other métiers (Table 4). As such this estimates the maximum impact compared to the untrawled situation and the impact estimated assuming all other métiers to have impacted the habitat will be less than this. The métier with the highest impact (PD and L1) relative to the value and landings is the otter trawl fishery for crustaceans (OT_CRU). The beam trawl fishery for whelks, snails and scallop (TBB_MOL) has the lowest impact per value and landings but note that only a very small area has been fished by this métier (Table 3). 

Métiers differ in their habitat association and impact on each habitat type (Figure 9). Fishing impact on mud is dominated by the otter trawl fishery (OT_CRU and OT_DMF). Beam trawl impact mostly occurs in circalittoral sand. For the three most dominant metiers (OT_CRU, OT_DMF and TBB_DMF), changes in impact over time are limited; there is some decline in impact scores by the otter trawl fishery on crustaceans (OT_CRU) in mud since 2010 (not shown). The two impact indicators are showing similar qualitative patterns but qualitatively differ in predicted impact of OT_CRU and OT_DMF. These differences arise as the PD method uses a four times larger depletion rate for OT_CRU compared with OT_DMF due to a larger gear penetration depth, whereas the L1 method assumes that all fauna are sensitive to bottom trawl disturbance (independent of the gear penetration depth). 