The impact of mobile bottom-contacting fishing calculated from both the PD and L1 methods mimics the distribution of fishing intensity. The areas of highest fishing impact using the PD method are in the Bay of Seine and in the eastern part of the channel (Figure 8, left). According to the L1 method, areas with impact above 0.8 are vastly distributed along the English Channel except in the surrounding of the Channel Islands and northeast of them (Figure 8, right).

The impact scores are largely constant over time (Figure 9, left panels). Impact varies between the four most extensive habitat types, with offshore circalittoral sand being the most impacted according to both indicators. The offshore circalittoral sand habitat has the lowest proportion of area with impact below 0.2 (less than 10% using the L1 method), while circalittoral coarse sediment habitat has the most.

Table 4 shows impact per métier relative to weight and value of landings. In this analysis, the different métiers are assessed for the grid cells that were fished by one MBCG métier, ignoring cells fished by other métiers. As such this estimates the maximum impact compared to the untrawled situation and the impact estimated assuming all other métiers to have impacted the habitat will be less than this. The métiers with the highest impact (PD and L1) relative to the value and landings are the ones targeting demersal fish (OT_DMF, SDN_DMF). The métiers targeting mollusks (DRB_MOL and TBB_MOL) have the lowest impact relative to value and landing, although this is influenced by the smaller swept area (Table 3).

Métiers differ in their habitat association and impact on each habitat type (Figure 10). Fishing impact in the English Channel is comparable among métiers. The most impacted broad-scale habitat type by several métiers is the offshore circalittoral sand, followed by offshore circalittoral coarse sediments. The highest impacts are caused by métiers targeting demersal fish, including otter trawl (OT_DMF), seines (SDN_DMF) and beam trawl (TBB_DMF).
