The distribution of fishing intensity in the Offshore deep subdivision has a strong spatial variation (Figure 2), with high concentrations of fishing effort occurring along the shelf edge and the waters around Rockall. 

The most fishing habitat is the Upper bathyal sediment at an average intensity of 1.17y-1. The proportion of the area subject to fishing pressure differs between broad-scale habitats and is highest in UNKNOWN (100% of grid cells fished) and offshore circalittoral mud (94% of grid cells fished) (Table 2). Fishing intensity is highest in offshore circalittoral mud (average intensity = 0.85 year-1) and offshore circalittoral sand (average intensity = 2.14 year-1). C-squares containing Offshore circalittoral rock and biogenic reef are fished at a very high intensity of 16.30y-1, although is probably that this is cause by the concentration of this feature in cells with other more fishable habitats.

Total fishing intensity was largely unchanged over time (Figure 3), with the exception of a single year reduction in 2010.  This reduction in fishing intensity was evident in both the upper bathyal sediment and the upper bathyal sediment or upper bathyal rock and biogenic reef. Average trawling intensity is more variable over time than the proportion of area fished (Figure 3, compare left and middle panel), with the exception of a strong, single-year reduction in 2010. Taken over the 10 year reporting period, this comparison shows that changes in intensity have not affected greatly the spatial distribution of the footprint.

Fishing pressure is aggregated at the level of the habitat (Figure 3, right panel). In all but abyssal areas and lower bathyal sediment, which are subject to a very small fishing footprint, the smallest proportion of habitat with 90% of effort varies between 15-30%. The intensively fished areas represent the ‘core fishing grounds’. These grounds contribute most of the landings and value (Figure 4). Close to 100% of the fishing effort (swept area) and 100% of the landings and value, occur in only 20% of the surface area of the Offshore Deep Subdivision (Figure 4).
