The impact of mobile bottom-contacting fishing from the PD method shows the areas of highest fishing impact within the Belgian waters, along the Dutch coast and in the Dutch and German offshore waters (Figure 9, left). Majority of the Southern North Sea displays an impact from the L1 method above 0.8, with lower impacted area corresponding to least fished areas (Figure 9, right).

The impact scores are largely constant over time (Figure 10, left panel), with an overall slight increase in surface area with impact score lower than 0.2 for both indicators. However, impact varies between habitats (Figure 9 shows the four most extensive habitat types). Of these four habitat types, impact is highest in offshore circalittoral mud and lowest in circalittoral coarse sediments (the latter being fished with an overall average of 0.70 times y-1). Between 50-90% of each habitat type has a PD impact score <0.2, whereas only 10-50% of each habitat type has an L1 impact score <0.2.

Table 4 shows impact per métier relative to weight and value of landings. In this analysis, the different métiers are assessed for the grid cells that were fished by one MBCG métier, ignoring cells fished by other métiers. As such this estimates the maximum impact compared to the untrawled situation and the impact estimated assuming all other métiers to have impacted the habitat will be less than this. The métiers with the highest impact (PD and L1) relative to the value and landings are the seines fisheries for demersal fish species (SDN_DMF and SSC_DMF) and the otter trawl fishery for crustaceans (OT_CRU) with a ratio between 0 and 0.01 for both metrics. The métiers targeting mollusks seem to be the least impactful but again the area swept was very small (Table 3).

Each métier shows a different impact among the four most distributed broad-scale habitat types (Figure 11). Offshore circalittoral mud is mostly impacted by the otter trawl fishery (OT_CRU and OT_DMF) followed by beam trawl fishery targeting demersal fish. Offshore circalittoral sand is the second most impacted habitat, mainly due to métiers targeting demersal fish. The two impact indicators are typically showing similar qualitative patterns but differ in scores.