The impact of mobile bottom-contacting fishing from the PD method shows the areas of highest fishing impact are located along the slopes of the Norwegian trench and in some locations along the coast of UK and east of the Shetland Islands (Figure 8, left). A much larger area with high impact was identified using the L1 method, possibly due to the high seabed sensitivity calculated for the eastern half of the Northern North Sea considering longevity. Areas with less impact are matching with low fishing or no fishing areas seen in Figure 1 (Figure 8, right).

Once the large drop in 2017 is not considered, the impact scores seem to be largely constant over time (Figure 9, left panel). Impact varies between habitats according to the L1 method, but they have similar scores according to the PD method (Figure 8 shows the four most extensive habitat types). Of the four most extensive habitat types, impact is highest in offshore circalittoral mud, which also has the lowest portion of area subject to an impact lower than 0.2. A much larger proportion of areas with impact lower than 0.2 is estimated for each habitat according to the PD method. 

Table 4 shows impact per métier relative to weight and value of landings. In this analysis, the different métiers are assessed for the grid cells that were fished by one MBCG métier, ignoring cells fished by other métiers. As such this estimates the maximum impact compared to the untrawled situation and the impact estimated assuming all other métiers to have impacted the habitat will be less than this. The métier with the highest impact (PD and L1) relative to the value and landings are the seines (SDN_DMF, SSC_DMF) and the otter trawl for crustaceans (OT_CRU) because only limited landings derived from a large area being fished. The dredges for mussel and scallop (DRB_MOL) seems to have the lowest impact per value but it is important to consider the small area being swept, while the otter trawl for demersal fish (OT_DMF) has the lowest impact per landing and value among the métiers that swept the largest proportion of area (Table 3).

Métiers differ in their habitat association and impact on each habitat type (Figure 10). Fishing impact on offshore circalittoral mud is dominated by the otter trawl fishery (OT_CRU and OT_DMF). Fishing impact on offshore circalittoral sand is dominated by métiers targeting demersal fish (OT_DMF, SSC_DMF). Seines shows highest impact on offshore circalittoral mixed sediments. The two impact indicators are typically showing similar qualitative patterns but differ in predicted impact of OT_CRU and OT_DMF. These differences arise as the PD method uses a four times larger depletion rate for OT_CRU compared with OT_DMF due to a larger gear penetration depth, whereas the L1 method assumes that all fauna are sensitive to bottom trawl disturbance (independent of the gear penetration depth).
