The distribution of fishing intensity in the Northern North Sea greatly is spatially heterogeneous (Figure 2). Areas of higher intensity occur east of the Shetland Islands and along the Norwegian Trench, matching with the fishing intensity observed in the latter subdivision. Areas with lower intensity occur in the southern part of the Northern North Sea, especially east of England north of the Dogger Bank where no fishing is occurring.

Fishing intensity differs between broad-scale habitats and is highest in upper bathyal sediment (average intensity = 15.89 year-1), offshore circalittoral mud (average intensity = 3.28 year-1) and offshore circalittoral mixed sediments (average intensity = 2.27 year-1). For these habitats, the proportion of area subject to fishing pressure is 100%, 99% and 98%, respectively. Offshore circalittoral mud is also one of the top two habitats by mean swept area, which, together with offshore circalittoral sand, they account for most of the landing and value. 

Figure 3 displays fishing intensity and proportion of area fished over time. If the large peaks around 2016-2017 are not considered, as they might derive from erroneous data, fishing intensity does not show a clear pattern over time. A mostly constant pattern is also visible in the proportion of area fished and in the proportion of area containing 90% of the effort (the core fishing grounds). The most intensely and extensively fished habitat is offshore circalittoral mud.

Fishing pressure is aggregated, both at the regional level as well as at the level of the habitat (Figure 3, right panel). The smallest proportion of habitat with 90% of effort is similar between broad-scale habitats quantifying between 40-50%. The intensively fished areas represent the ‘core fishing grounds’. These grounds contribute most of the landings and value (Figure 4). More than 60% of the fishing effort (swept area), landings and value occur in less than 20% of the surface area of the Northern North Sea (Figure 4).
